[Music]
hey have I ever told you that you have
an amazing body no no I didn't mean it
that way what I'm saying is your body is
a thing of wonder they didn't come out
right either put it this way
the human body does a bunch of really
cool stuff check it out with me number
one people literally shine well it's
much more apparent in some jellyfish and
other sea creatures every living being
on this planet emits light yep humans
included this effect is called
bioluminescence and the only difference
in our case is that we can't see this
light at all it's a thousand times
dimmer than our eyes can naturally pick
up but if you could look at someone
through a highly sensitive camera in a
light proof room you'd see it this light
is brighter during the day and dimmer at
night and the brightest light comes from
our faces - we have the best cameras out
there no wait in there the best camera
humanity has been able to make so far
has around 200 megapixels guess what you
don't need it because your eyes are even
better how does an image quality of 576
megapixels sound yep that's how good
your vision is too bad those pictures
get printed on the back of the eye
instead of a piece of paper that you can
frame still technology has a lot of
catching up to do 3 we're all
long-distance runners sort of the human
heart is a small but powerful engine in
one day it pumps blood so effectively
that it travels around 12,000 miles to
run through every vessel in your body
that'd be like running from coast to
coast all the way across the continental
US four times not only that but if you
could stretch all your blood vessels out
in a line well you'd be extinct but the
blood vessels would wrap around the
earth several times for you have as much
hair as a chimp
no offense the difference between us and
our little ape cousins is not at a
quantity of hair at all
that's the
saying it's all in the quality we use
nicer shampoos I know now it really
comes down to the way we evolved our
hair we needed to sweat more effectively
and thus control body heat another good
thing about our fine
dandy hair it's much less likely to
harbor parasites and we look better this
way so it's a win-win 5u COFF almost at
the speed of sound your lungs are
capable of forcing their out of them so
hard that it moves almost at the speed
of sound okay one-third the speed of
sound but still this is for particularly
boisterous coughs coming from a pretty
large set of lungs like this Wow
I need some water just imagine if it was
a little faster and you created a sonic
boom well don't count on it our lungs
regulate the speed six your body knows
when it's underwater gee our bubbles
kind of a clue
nope it has a special mechanism to
manage going underwater it's called the
diving reflex and it's in almost every
kind of mammal including humans this
reflex redistributes oxygen in your body
by channeling it to your heart and brain
the moment you dive into the water your
body automatically slows down the heart
rate constricts blood vessels and
releases red blood cells stored in the
spleen this reflex is also triggered by
wetting the face and especially the
nostrils but it won't work just from
running your hands or feet underwater
speaking of which seven there's a reason
why your hands and feet get wrinkly in
water it may seem like something that
just happens to your skin if it's wet
but here's a curveball fact people with
damaged nerves in the skin don't get
wrinkly fingers in the water it turns
out that this wrinkling is a powerful
reaction to water triggered by the
nervous system we need these wrinkles to
achieve a better grip with wet surfaces
experiments have proven this to a person
with these rays and fingers was able to
collect more wet marbles than a person
with smooth dry hands we're halfway
through the list but
don't forget that you can always add
your own examples of crazy body facts
down in the comments okay now for the
biggest myth number eight forget all
about this we use 10% of our brains
thing this myth came from outdated
research that only proposed that we
don't use the full potential of our
brain but it didn't say anything about
10% today we know for sure that our
brains are always active every zoning
plan in them are working at any time
even during sleep see for yourself if we
don't use 90% of the brain then why does
it need around 20% of all our energy for
a mere 10% of activity I don't think so
though I probably use only about 10% on
Monday mornings okay number nine there's
a part of your body that doesn't get any
blood every piece in your body is
somehow connected to the blood supply it
transports all the goods to it and all
the unwanted stuff away from it except
for one thing your corneas the corneas
are transparent layers on the front side
of your eyes that are like lenses and
shields for the more sensitive parts
inside there are no blood vessels in
them they get everything they need
thanks to the tear ducts and direct
contact with oxygen in the air that's
why it's so important to keep your eyes
moist and let them rest every once in a
while 10 your ears and nose don't stop
growing somewhere around age 21 our
bodies stop growing no matter how hard
you wanted to become an NBA star at 21
your fate is sealed it wouldn't be like
that if basketball stars needed Big Ear
easy noses though because those things
grow your whole life
this happens because they're made of
cartilage unlike bones that stuff can't
heal itself naturally but a great big
recover micro wounds this and the fact
that gravity affects cartilage more
obviously than other parts of our body
making it grow ever so slightly with
each year 11 a woman's brain shrinks
during pregnancy but that's a good thing
yeah it gets a bit smaller during this
time listen
isn't always worse there are zones in
our brain that are responsible for
feelings and nonverbal communication
when a woman is pregnant these zones go
through a complete overhaul think it
physically smaller but only because they
change their structure to become more
focused efficient and in line with the
ultimate goal the birth of a child
basically this shrinking is a sign of
the brain Swift development and not
otherwise twelve babies have many more
bones than adults while a grown person
has 206 bones a newborn baby has around
300 of them their bones aren't entirely
formed or fused together when they're
born
most are fractured into different pieces
but linked by a more elastic material
that cartilage stuff I just mentioned
with time as the baby grows the bones
will become hard and merge with each
other
thirteen half of all the strength in
your hand comes from the pinkie it's our
fancy opposable thumbs that make us
human and without the index and middle
finger our hands would be pretty much
useless right well don't underestimate
that little pinkie hanging out on the
sidelines your little finger teams up
with the middle one to provide strength
without the pinkie your grip would be
much weaker it also provides control to
an all wrist movement like when you're
working with some kind of tool 14 teeth
aren't naturally why yeah brace yourself
for this one human teeth are covered by
a unique substance called enamel it's
the hardest thing a living being can
possibly have it's harder than steel yet
it's still quite brittle so don't get
any ideas here and another thing about
tooth enamel it isn't white it's cloudy
transparent with a tinge of blue the
color we see is because of the second
layer that's beneath the enamel dentin
and it's yellow just don't take this as
an excuse for not taking care of your
teeth hygiene is still King enamel is
cloudy with a tinge of blue hmm blue
tooth just saying hey if you learn
something new today then give the video
a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life